---
layout: default
title: Dynamics of Living Systems Lab
categories: home
homepage: true
---
We develop models of molecular pathways to discover the fundamental principles for how cells operate and maintain themselves as self-organizing life forms.

Molecular pathways allow cells to respond to extracellular cues, allowing them to adapt to their environment. For signal transduction pathways, the composition and architecture is defined at the level of protein structure, which dictates which proteins interact with each other, how these interactions are coupled to each other and how they are influenced by post-translational modifications. Yet, how and which extracellular cues are processed in any individual cell depends on its molecular make-up , i.e., the cell identity – a systems level property. This cell-to-cell variability drives various biological phenomena including cell fate decisions and resistance to anti-cancer drugs and is, thus, of relevance to basic biology and human health. 

Our lab combines dynamic mathematical models of molecular pathways with machine learning approaches to build models that connect structural, pathway and systems level dynamics and states. We apply these hybrid models to, for example, study pathway regulatory rules emerge from structural level or how the cell states can be used to predict cell-to-cell variability in dynamic pathway-level responses. We develop the computational tools to build and train these models and apply them to biological problems such as the predicting sensitivity to anti-cancer drugs, anticipating cell fate decisions and desiging synthetic molecular switches.
